{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Ching dissertation\
\
2011 
\f1 The Implications of Social, Cultural, Economic, and Political Interactions for Ceramic Evolution on the Banda Islands, Maluku Province, Indonesia. University of Washington dissertation. 	\

\f0 \

\b research goals
\b0 \
\
external factors like culture contact, trade goods, culture and materials, and people could motivate internal transformations resulting in changes to local material culture. \
\
\'93Ignoring local developments prevents us from revealing the \'93black box\'94 and leaves the mechanisms of cultural evolution a mystery\'94 (3). causal approach\
pragmatic, contextualized approach - carnelian beads eventually locally produced, not imported, therefore their presence does not always indicate indianization (3). \
\
Goal of dissertation \
	1) whether the external and internal factors affect Banda\'92s material culture, particularly its 	ceramics,\
	2) how we can measure and monitor their influence on Banda\'92s ceramic changes, and\
	3) the broader implications of ceramic changes in connection with Banda\'92s cultural history. (6)\
\
analyzing ceramic technology and patterns of production and distribution can help us to understand the mechanical performance and social, political, and economic rationale behind them.(8)\
\
gives Bellwood\'92s unification-ist approach of explaining movement of people and goods throughout ISEA before colonial period. \
\
The question to be asked then is whether or not ceramic production became more specialized with the growth of the maritime spice trade in the last thousand years. (12-13).\
\
maritime trade being the causal mechanisms for increased specialization, social complexity, and competition for control of trade. eventually regulating a specialized ceramic production and distribution (13-14).\
\
\'93The dialectical relationships between theory construction and data verification received extensive discussion in America in the 1970s and 1980s (Binford 1978; Carr 1985; Salmon and Salmon 1979; Trigger 1989). Particularly in ceramic study, researchers have realized that the surrounding contexts of ceramic production, i.e., ecological environment, economy, subsistence strategies, social organization, and symbolic worldview play important roles in constructing plausible explanations (Arnold 1985; Gosselain 1999a; Longacre and Stark 1992; Matson 1965; Sinopoli 1993)\'94 (18).\
\
pg 36.\
\
ethnographic studies demonstrate that ceramic specialization has occurred in the maluku region over the past few hundred years (40). \
\
this study used lip thickness- reduction in variation of thickness as evidence of specialization/standardization. \
\
Social boundaries and networks are proposed to be the mechanisms that could possibly affect ceramic assemblages (41). \
Rim sherds are the focus of analysis because almost all containers have rims, and containers constitute the majority of earthenware pottery. Rim are common, even when whole containers don\'92t survive, and the shape of rim can be used to extrapolate shape of vessel, neck, opening, etc. (43). \
\
It is critical because archaeological concepts such as culture, economy, society, adaptation, or migration are sometimes so abstract that concrete empirical entities are required in research (45). \
researchers are free to propose functional or historical interpretations if contextual information indicates that one is more likely than the other (47). \
}